# CellTypeAnalyses_2016

###This repository contains the full code for the cell type analyses applied to the Pritzker Neuropsychiatric Consortium's dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) Affymetrix microarray data for individuals with different psychiatric diagnoses as presented in the manuscript "INFERENCE OF CELL-TYPE COMPOSITION FROM HUMAN BRAIN TRANSCRIPTOMIC DATASETS ILLUMINATES THE EFFECTS OF AGE, MANNER OF DEATH, DISSECTION, AND PSYCHIATRIC DIAGNOSIS" 
###by *Megan Hastings Hagenauer, Ph.D.1, Jun Z. Li, Ph.D.2, David M. Walsh, Psy.D.3, Marquis P. Vawter, Ph.D.3 Robert C. Thompson, Ph.D.1, Cortney A. Turner, Ph.D.1, William E. Bunney, M.D.3, Richard M. Myers, Ph.D.4, Jack D. Barchas, M.D.5, Alan F. Schatzberg, M.D.6, Stanley J. Watson, M.D., Ph.D.1, Huda Akil, Ph.D.1    
###1Mol. Behavioral Neurosci. Inst., Univ. of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA;  2Genet., Univ. of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA;   3Univ. of California, Irvine, CA; 4HudsonAlpha Inst. for Biotech., Huntsville, AL, USA; 5Stanford, Palo Alto, CA, 6Cornell, New York, NY, USA

###Please note that this code is not easily generalizable - it primarily represents the documentation for all analyses used in our paper. For those of you who are interested in applying similar techniques to your own data, we do have a simplified, generalized version available at https://github.com/hagenaue/BrainInABlender.

###The data used in these analyses are publically available on NCBI's GEO: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE92538.  Please note that the format for these data differs a little bit from the original files mentioned in the code (referred to as "DLPFC_SubjectInfoUpdated_IrvineZT.csv", "dlpfc_avg2.txt"), but we are unable to release the original files used in the analysis due to the need to mask some of the identifying information for the subjects. I have also uploaded a concatenated version of the GEO data release to github: "dlpfc_avg2_wMappedIDs.csv" and "DLPFC_SubjectInfoUpdated_wMappedIDs.csv".
